# Notes

Personal notes taken while developing this project. Notes are organized latest-first.

## 2013-03-26

- I am able to find GOS assemblies that have both hits on photosynthesis genes and on viral genomes.
- In the paper though, psbA was not used as query. (This one is also not the core subject of the paper as it is a PS-II gene of which the presence in viral genomes has been demonstrated before)
- I am at this point unable to say which viral genes I detected. It might be better to build a collection of viral genes instead of using the entire viral genomes.
- Looking back at the paper, I'll be unable to find a single clone in the GS037 sample containing both a viral gene and psaA. The only assembly containing a viral gene (nrdB) contains psaC, not psaA. I should retry this with GS047 or GS034.
- I'll need to look for a way to visualize stuff or anyway find out which blast hits occured in each others vicinity.

## 2013-03-13

- For the sake of feasibility, I'm going to filter the GOS data. I'll only use sequences coming from station GS037 as these should contain some viral sequences containing photosystem I genes (described by Sharon et al. in figure 2). So replicating that finding alone would already be satisfying.
- Filtering GOS data worked.
- running `make all`. Had to do some bugfixing here and there to make the entire pipeline run and find some blast hits.
- Can't seem to find the clone ids mentioned in figure 2 of the paper. Hope this won't hurt.

## 2013-03-12

- Indeed, 500 hits, that is a default BLAST cutoff. Not sure whether it would be wise to increase this value, as I have no idea how high I should set this value. Either way, that probably explains why I was able to do this search on my laptop.
- Reorganized the data: added a folder `data/photosynthesis_genes` which includes the fasta sequences of the photosynthesis genes separately. By also modifying the `Makefile`, this makes it possible to redo the analysis only for photosynthesis genes that haven't been analyzed before.

## 2013-03-11

- Wrote a script to fetch the GOS assemblies that contain photosynthesis genes. This script reads the BLAST output and parses it and subsequently, fetches the GOS assembly sequences based on the hit-description. The script is `results/01-blast-search/scripts/fetchBlastHitSequences.py`.
- Running `blasthit_statistics.py` showed that there are 500 hits in the tBLASTx output (which was generated with only the psaA gene in `photosynthesis_genes.fas`; the fact that that is not clear by itself should be solved somehow) and 100001 alignments. Especially 500 seems like a number that is too round to be real. Could this be a default cutoff by BLAST? I should check this and redo the run.
- Added the psbA gene sequence to `photosynthesis_genes.fas` but haven't done the analysis again. I also discovered that it is pretty silly to redo the entire analysis if you add one gene to `photosynthesis_genes.fas`. You shouldn't redo the BLAST searches for the genes that were already in there. If I want to get to that point, I'd better reorganise the data and makefiles.

## 2013-03-05

- Read the article `Three Prochlorococcus Cyanophage genomes: Signature Features and Ecological Interpretations.` They describe the discovery of *PsbA* and *hli* in these three Prochlorococcus Cyanophages.
- Started a new subproject in the `results` directory: `03-Viral-photosynthesis-genes` in which I will try to map photosynthesis genes on viral genomes (so this has nothing to do with the GOS dataset anymore). Still need to find the genomic sequence of *psbA* and *hli* though.
- Found out about BLAST's `num_threads` parameter and implemented it right away in the `runblast.py` script. I hardcoded it and made it use 3 threads. The documentation on [this](https://wiki.hpcc.msu.edu/display/Bioinfo/BLAST+with+Multiple+Processors) site describes that you have to include the main thread. So if you want to have 2 worker threads, you specify `num_threads=3`.

## 2013-02-26

- Wrapper script written to fetch cyanophage genomes from `ViralGenomes.fas`.

## 2013-02-24

- Diving into taxonomy resulted in no big surprises: indeed `Prochlorococcus` and `Synechococcus` phage genomes are both Cyanophages. So I want to fetch all sequences from the `ViralGenomes.fas` file matching `Prochlorococcus`, `Synechococcus` or `Cyanophage`. The resulting list might nog be complete, but it should do as a test. In order to do so, a new directory was created in the `results` directory: `02-ViralRefseq-search`. The scripts, currently in development, reside in a scripts folder in that directory.

## 2013-02-11

- I want to filter the `ViralGenomes.fas` file. It is too big to use as query for tblastx. I am considering to use only Cyanophages, as the paper states the following:

	Analysis of the GOS clones containing the modified psaA genes confirmed their viral origin (probably cyanophages from the Myoviridae familiy)

- However, in order to be able to do so, I will need to dive into some viral taxonomy first as I currently don't know why the `ViralGenomes.fas` file contains `Cyanophage genomes` but also `Prochlorococcus` and `Synechococcus phage genomes`. I would guess those last two are also Cyanophages.

## 2013-02-10

- data/viralGenomes.fas added. These data were downloaded from NCBI's ftp site. The original filename is `viral.1.1.genomic.fna`.

## 2013-02-08

- Update: the query sequence I used was not really a psaA gene. I found a new sequence on the EBI website and added it to the `photosynthesis_genes.fas` file.
- Redo BLAST but use tblastx instead of blastn.
- Result: 500 hits!

## 2013-02-08

- Wrote `blasthits_statistics` to count the number of blast hits found. Turns out to be 23. This is much less then the 574 assemblies found in the paper, but I only used psaA as query and I used blastn, not tblastx.
- Next steps:
	- perform similarity search with tblastx
	- Look for other photosynthesis genes to include as query

## 2013-02-07

- Creating a blastable database from the GOS dataset. This took less then 1 hour.
- Trying to do a first test search with the psaA gene on the GOS dataset. No luck however, it seems that the GOS blast database is missing its header file. I probably accidentally deleted it while moving files.
- Rebuild the GOS blastable database.
- Redo the test blast run. Succeed.

## 2013-01-30

- BLAST installed locally
- Added code to create a blastable database from the input file
- Decided to name the input file `input.fasta`. This way, if you want to run this code on your own data, you can just rename your input file `input.fasta` or create a simlink with this name

## 2013-01-28

- Repository initialized.
- README.mkd created
- notes.mkd created
- data/ directory created. Two testfiles added: `GOS_testassembly.fas` and `photosynthesis_genes.fas`. Both containing one sequence of random A, C, T, G characters.
- scripts/ directory created. Nothing in there yet.
