# Photosystem genes in cyanophages

## Background

This project was based on the results published in the following article: [Photosystem I gene cassettes are present in marine virus genomes][0] by Sharon et al. The authors identified a number of photosystem I genes in marine virus genomes by performing a tBLASTx search for photosynthesis genes in the contigs of the [Global Ocean Sampling project][1].

## Data

The analysis performed in the article was done on publicly available data from the [Global Ocean Sampling project][1]. The sequences used were contigs, so the assembly was already done by the GOS researchers. The data can be downloaded from the [CAMERA portal][2]. You can obviously use your own data if you like.

## Goal

Here we will try to reproduce the results from the published article.

## Run the analysis

If you want to run the analysis yourself, on the same or on your own data, you can clone this repository.

### Dependencies

- Python (I use 2.7)
- A local version of the NCBI BLAST+ tools with the executables in your local PATH variable

### What is in this repository?

- scripts/ : directory containing code
- README file: this file
- notes: notes taken while developing this project

### What is not in this repository?

- data

### Get the code

`git clone thisrepo`

### Run the analysis

There is currently nothing to run.

## Contribute

Please feel free to contribute to this project. You can track my progress and you can fork this repository or propose changes if you like.

[0](link to paper)
[1](link to GOS project page)
[2](link to CAMERA portal)
